Agglomerative Hierarchical Clustering Statistical Test Results:

The optimal number of clusters are: 2, 3

Testing history:

Null-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have the same Silhouette score as clustering with 3 clusters.
Alternative-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have greater Silhouette score than clustering with 3 clusters.
Results: t-stat = 1.562, p-value = 0.061.
Failed to reject the Null-Hypothesis.



Null-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have the same Silhouette score as clustering with 4 clusters.
Alternative-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have greater Silhouette score than clustering with 4 clusters.
Results: t-stat = 8.093, p-value = 0.000.
The Null-Hypothesis rejected and it proves that the Alternative-Hypothesis is correct and statistically significant.



Null-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have the same Silhouette score as clustering with 5 clusters.
Alternative-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have greater Silhouette score than clustering with 5 clusters.
Results: t-stat = 20.461, p-value = 0.000.
The Null-Hypothesis rejected and it proves that the Alternative-Hypothesis is correct and statistically significant.



Null-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have the same Silhouette score as clustering with 6 clusters.
Alternative-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have greater Silhouette score than clustering with 6 clusters.
Results: t-stat = 15.542, p-value = 0.000.
The Null-Hypothesis rejected and it proves that the Alternative-Hypothesis is correct and statistically significant.



Null-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have the same Silhouette score as clustering with 7 clusters.
Alternative-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have greater Silhouette score than clustering with 7 clusters.
Results: t-stat = 33.092, p-value = 0.000.
The Null-Hypothesis rejected and it proves that the Alternative-Hypothesis is correct and statistically significant.



Null-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have the same Silhouette score as clustering with 8 clusters.
Alternative-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have greater Silhouette score than clustering with 8 clusters.
Results: t-stat = 32.370, p-value = 0.000.
The Null-Hypothesis rejected and it proves that the Alternative-Hypothesis is correct and statistically significant.



Null-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have the same Silhouette score as clustering with 9 clusters.
Alternative-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have greater Silhouette score than clustering with 9 clusters.
Results: t-stat = 28.176, p-value = 0.000.
The Null-Hypothesis rejected and it proves that the Alternative-Hypothesis is correct and statistically significant.



Null-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have the same Silhouette score as clustering with 10 clusters.
Alternative-Hypothesis: clustering with 2 clusters have greater Silhouette score than clustering with 10 clusters.
Results: t-stat = 24.628, p-value = 0.000.
The Null-Hypothesis rejected and it proves that the Alternative-Hypothesis is correct and statistically significant.



